1.3
Introduction to objects and variables
We recall that statements execute sequentially and perform actions that execute the goal of the program.
But how does this happen? Usually by manipulating data, with data being any information that can be moved, processed, or stored by a computer.

A single piece of data is called a value.

RAM is main memory for a computer. OS will load the program to RAm when we run a program, and hardcoded data is loaded at this point.
The OS reserves some additional RAm for the program to use while running. Common uses for this memory are storing values entered by the user, or values calculated.
In older programming languages, you'd often directly access RAM addresses.
In C++, that's... different. And discouraged.

Rather than direct memory access, we access memory indirectly through an object.
An object is a region of storage (usually memory) that can store a value, and has other associated properties (covered in future lessons).
A variable is an object that has a name (identifier).

Note that in C++, the term object excludes functions. This is a narrower definition than what's general for programming.

To create a variable, we use a declaration statement called a definition.

int x; //example definition, except we'll clarify definition vs declaration later, says the tutorial

When the program is called, the variable will be instantiated.
Instantiation means the object is created and assigned a memory address. Variables must be instantiated before they can be used to store values.
An instantiated object is sometimes called an instance.

A data type tells the compiler what type of value the variable will store.
In C++, type of a variable must be known at compile time (when program is compiled) and that type can't be changed without recompiling the program.

We can define multiple variables of the same type in a single statement by separating the names with a comma.
int a; int b;
is the same as
int a, b;

Best practice is to avoid this, though; instead, define each variable in a separate statement on its own line and use a single-line comment to document what it's used for.

Quiz:
1. What is data?
Information that can be manipulated (stored, moved, processed) by a computer.

2. What is a value?
A value is a single piece of data.

3. What is a variable?
A variable is named data (a named region of memory), with the name being used to store a value.

4. What is an identifier?
An identifier is the name used to access a variable.

5. What is a type?
A type is an attribute of a value that tells the program how to interpret a value in memory.

6. What is an integer?
An integer is a number without a decimal point or fractional component.




