4_10
Introduction to if statements

The simplest kind of conditional statement in C++ is called an if statement.
An if statement allows us to execute one or more lines of code only if a condition is true.

A condition (also called conditional expression) is an expression that evaluates to a bool.
The equality operator == is used to test whether two values are equal, and returns true if the operands are equal, or false if they're not.

For some reason, this tutorial only has if statements conditionally execute a single statement, not a block. If statements with blocks are all the way in chapter 8. Ouch.

However, if-else is in this chapter.
if(condition)
    true_statement;
else
    false_statement;

We can also chain if statements and if-else statements.
if(condition)
    true_statement;
else if(other_condition)
    other_statement;
else
    false_statement;

Less than operator (<) and greater than operator (>) test whether values are less than or greater than other values.

Note that conditional expressions for if statements can be function calls that return a bool.

Non-boolean conditionals are also a thing.
If a conditional expression is converted to a bool, non-zero values convert to boolean true and zero-values convert to boolean false.
Apparently an empty string ("") literal counts as true!
But single char '\0' doesn't.

A return statement that is not the last statement in a function is called an early return.
Such a statement will cause the function to return to the caller when the return statement is executed (before the function would otherwise return to the caller, hence "early).

An unconditional early return isn't very useful, but we can put conditions on the early return for a lot better use.

Historically, early returns were frowned upon, but in modern programming, they're more accepted because they can make functions simpler or abort early due to error conditions.

Quiz
1) What is an early return, and what is its behavior?
An early return is a return statement within a function that is not the last line of the function. It returns to the caller without executing the remaining lines of the function it's in.

2. A prime number is a whole number greater than 1 that can only be divided evenly by 1 and itself. Write a program that asks the user to enter a number 0 through 9 (inclusive).
If the user enters a prime number, print "The digit is prime", otherwise print "The digit is not prime".
see ch4_10_2.cpp (cheated by using || operator, but dgaf)

3. How can the length of the following code be reduced (without changing the formatting)?
Change the following:
  if (height >= 140.0)
    return true;
  else
    return false;

to:
    return (height >= 140.0);



